CircleMUD 3.00 README file

Welcome to CircleMUD 3.0!  I hope you enjoy your stay.

More information about CircleMUD can be found at the CircleMUD Home Page:
http://www.circlemud.org.  That site has the latest source distributions,
code contributions, areas, and documentation (online in HTML form, and
downloadable in ASCII or Postscript.)  CircleMUD's official FTP site is
ftp://ftp.circlemud.org.

There is a mailing list for CircleMUD administrators and coders available.
To subscribe, write mail to listserv@post.queensu.ca with a message
body of "subscribe circle".  Write to listserv@post.queensu.ca to send
mail to the list.

Use of this software in any capacity implies that you have read, understood,
and agreed to abide by the terms and conditions set down by the CircleMUD
license contained in the file license.doc.

Also, out of courtesy if nothing else, please keep the 'credits' file intact.
You can add your own credits on top of the existing file, but I'd appreciate
it if you would not simply remove it and all references to the word "Circle"
everywhere in the MUD.

Jeremy Elson
jelson@circlemud.org

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

CircleMUD QuickStart Guide

If you are an experienced MUD player and you know your way around a compiler,
you can probably get up and running with this README file alone.  Be aware
that there's a wealth of other information in the doc directory, though, and
if you have problems or questions, that's the first place you should look
for answers.

As of Version 3.0, the basic CircleMUD source distribution compiles under
most variants of UNIX including SunOS 4.x, Solaris 2.x, IRIX 4.x/5.x,
Linux 1.x/2.x (including MkLinux for the Power Mac), Ultrix 4.x, HP/UX,
and others.  It also has been ported to compile under Windows 95/NT, OS/2,
and the Amiga; see the files README.WIN, README.OS2, and README.AMIGA,
respectively.

The Version 3.0 source currently does NOT compile under DOS, Windows 3.x,
Windows for Workgroups, or Mac System 7.  There are currently no binary
distributions available except a very old Amiga binary of CircleMUD 2.20.
If you are interested in creating a new port to a platforms, see the file
PORTING for some tips.

For a small, private MUD, or a MUD used only for testing and development,
about 10 megs of disk space and 16 megs of memory should be sufficient.
For large, public MUDs with a large player base, 30 megs to 50 megs of
disk space and at least 32 megs of memory are recommended.  Free memory
is much more important than CPU speed; CircleMUD uses virtually no CPU
time.


QuickStart instructions:

1)  Download the latest version of CircleMUD.  You can always find the latest
    version at the following anonymous FTP sites:

        ftp.circlemud.org:/pub/CircleMUD
        ftp2.circlemud.org:/pub/CircleMUD

    You can also find information at the WWW site:

        http://www.circlemud.org/

    The archive is offered in two formats, one which ends in .tar.gz and
    one which ends in .zip.  The files have the same contents but have
    been compressed using different programs.  You should use the .tar.gz
    version if you're using UNIX; use the .zip version if you're using
    Windows 95 or OS/2.


2)  Unpack the archive.  If you have the .tar.gz version, uncompress it using
    gzip (GNU unzip) and the tar archiver.  (Both of these utilities can be
    downloaded from ftp.gnu.ai.mit.edu:/pub/gnu if you don't have them.)
    To unpack the archive on a UNIX system, type:

        gzip -dc circle30xxxx.tar.gz | tar xvf -

    If you have the .zip version, make sure to use an UNZIP program capable of
    handling long filenames and which preserves the original directory
    structure of the archive (PKUNZIP 2.04 does NOT do either of these things
    by default.)  The best unzip program is the one made by the Info-Zip
    team; it is compatible with all UNIX variants, Windows, OS/2, the Amiga,
    and every other computer on the planet.  For more information, see the URL
    http://quest.jpl.nasa.gov/info-zip/UnZip.html.  If you have Windows 95,
    another good choice is WinZip (http://www.winzip.com/).


The rest of the instructions apply *only* to UNIX systems.  If you are using
a non-UNIX platform such as Windows or OS/2, stop here and read the README
file specific to your operating system instead (e.g. README.WIN, README.OS2,
etc.)


3)  Configure CircleMUD for your system.  Circle must be configured using
    the 'configure' program which attempts to guess correct values for
    various system-dependent variables used during compilation.  It uses
    those values to create a 'Makefile' and a header file called 'conf.h'.

    From Circle's root directory, type

        ./configure

    If you're using 'csh' on an old version of System V, csh might try to
    execute 'configure' itself, giving you a message like "Permission denied"
    when you try to run "./configure".  If so, type "sh ./configure" instead.

    'configure' can take several minutes if you're using a slow computer.

    'configure' will attempt to use the 'gcc' compiler if it exists; if not,
    it will try 'cc'.  If you want to use a different compiler, set the
    'CC' environment variable to the name of the compiler you wish to use.

    For example, if your shell is csh or tcsh:

	setenv CC xlc
	./configure

    If you're using sh or bash:

	CC=xlc ./configure

    This will tell 'configure' to use the 'xlc' compiler instead of 'gcc'.


4)  Build the CircleMUD server.  This must be done from the 'src' directory.
    Type:
   
        cd src; make all

    This will build CircleMUD proper as well as its 10 or so ancillary
    utilities, which can take anywhere from 5 minutes to an hour depending
    on the speed of your computer.

    Note that in the future, when you need to recompile Circle as you make
    changes to the code, it is NOT necessary to run 'configure' again (it
    should only be run once, after the first time you unpack Circle from
    its .tar file).  If you move the source code to a different computer,
    you should reconfigure it by deleting the file 'config.cache' and
    running 'configure' again.

    The first time you try to compile Circle, you will be asked to read the
    CircleMUD license.  Please read it!


5)  Go back to Circle's root directory (by typing "cd ..") and run the
    CircleMUD server.  The easiest way to do this the first time is
    to use the 'autorun' script, which can be run in the background by
    typing:

        ./autorun &

    Make sure to do this in Circle's root directory, not the src directory
    that you used for the previous step.  A file called 'syslog' will start
    growing in the same directory that contains Circle's log messages.


6)  Wait until the line 'No connections.  Going to sleep.' appears in the
    syslog.  This indicates that the server is ready and waiting for
    connections.  It shouldn't take more than about 30 seconds for the MUD
    to reach this state, though performance will vary depending on how fast
    your computer is.

    If a file appears called 'syslog.CRASH', the MUD has terminated
    (probably abnormally).  Check the contents of syslog.CRASH to see
    what error was encountered.


7)  Type 'telnet localhost 4000' to connect.  The first person to log in
    will be made an implementor (level 34) with all powers.


Other Documentation
-------------------
If the 7-step guide above isn't enough to get you running, there's a lot
more information available.  All documentation (other than this file) is
in the doc directory and available on-line at http://www.circlemud.org.

The README file in the doc directory describes each documentation file
in detail, but there are several main files which should be of interest:

"The CircleMUD Administrator's Guide" (admin.txt, admin.ps)
    A good place to start after reading this README file, admin.txt gives
an overall description of how Circle works, how to get it to compile and
run for the first time, information about customizing and configuration
options and command-line arguments, and tips on maintenance and day-to-day
MUD administration. 

"The CircleMUD Builder's Manual" (building.txt, building.ps)
    For the builders in your group, this documents the world-file format 
and describes how to create new rooms, objects, and monsters.  Also, it 
describes how to add new areas to the MUD and gives some tips about game 
balance and world-file debugging.

"The CircleMUD Coder's Manual" (coding.txt, coding.ps)
    For the coders in your group, a technical reference describing some of
the more basic coding tasks such as how to add new commands, spells,
skills, socials, and classes.  Note that it assumes the reader already has
an excellent knowledge of C; the manual is not a C tutorial.

"The CircleMUD SYSERR List" (syserr.txt, syserr.ps)
    A comprehensive list of all the possible SYSERR messages CircleMUD 
can generate, and a description of what can cause each problem and how to 
solve it.  An excellent guide for troubleshooting and area debugging.


Getting Help
------------ 
If you have strange problems -- and you can't figure out the answer by
reading the documentation -- fear not, there are many other resources you
can turn to.  The best is probably the CircleMUD Mailing List, which you
can subscribe to by writing mail to "listserv@post.queensu.ca" with a
message body of "subscribe circle".  If you want to write mail to the
list, address it to "circle@post.queensu.ca".  Over 300 CircleMUD imps
read that list regularly, so chances are you'll get help quickly. 

If that doesn't work, you can always contact me directly by writing to
jelson@circlemud.org.  Or, take a look at the CircleMUD Home Page which is
at http://www.circlemud.org which has extensive, up-to-date documentation
and patches on-line.

Finally, if you have USENET access and are very brave, you can try posting
to the newsgroups rec.games.mud.diku or rec.games.mud.admin.

If you write mail asking for help, either to the mailing list or to me,
make sure to include the following information:

  -- The exact version of CircleMUD you're using (e.g., "CircleMUD 2.20",
     "CircleMUD 3.0 beta patchlevel 12", etc.).
  -- The EXACT text of any error messages, compiler errors, link errors,
     or any other errors you're getting.
  -- The exact type of hardware, operating system name and version, and
     compiler you're using.
  -- A description of ANY changes you've made, no matter how small, that
     might have contributed to the error.
  -- If you are having trouble getting Circle running for the very first
     time, also be sure to include the output of 'configure' and the file
     'config.log'.

Remember, I get dozens of pieces of email every day.  If you don't bother to
give me an excellent description of your problem, I will be somewhat annoyed
and will not be able to help you.  Here is a sample of a piece of mail I got:

     hi I need some help with CircleMUD....i tried compiling it on my system
     but I got all sorts of errors, and when i type bin/circle like it says
     in the manual it doesn't work.  Can you help????  you can log into my
     system if you want, the password is mud5.

Letters like that are always ignored.  I get a lot of them.


Good luck, and have fun!

Jeremy Elson
aka Ras/Rasmussen
jelson@circlemud.org


USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ANY CAPACITY IMPLIES THAT YOU HAVE READ, UNDERSTOOD,
AND AGREED TO ABIDE BY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET DOWN BY THE CIRCLEMUD
LICENSE.

