UNNOFICIAL Zen's EnvyMud patch Release 0.87j! (Ultra Envy2.2)
Wednesday, 10th December 1997

Zen             vasc@camoes.rnl.ist.utl.pt



=== The doc directory

This file gives a brief description of the files in the doc directory.

act.txt		- Explains how the functions send_to_char, send_to_all_char,
		and act are called and used.
area.txt	- Gives detailed instructions on how to create an area file
bugs.txt	- Lists know bugs in ULTRAENVY and fixed ENVY 2.2 bugs.
clans.txt	- Gives detailed instructions on the clan implementation.
class.txt	- Gives detailed instructions on how to create a class for
		game play.
command.txt	- Gives detailed instructions on how to add commands to the
		game.
config.txt	- Gives descriptions and instructions on how to configure the
		game.
contrib.nvy	- Lists all those who have contributed their time in creating
		the ENVY 2.2 release.
contrib.txt	- Lists all those who have contributed their time in creating
		this release.
dikuimp.txt	- Gives a brief overview on how to be a Diku Implementor.
down.txt	- Gives detailed instructions on how to use the autoshutdown
		feature.
drool.txt	- Lists the ideas of a group called the Drool Co.
hacker.txt	- Gives suggestions on how to proceed in developing a mud.
license.doc	- Gives the license agreement of the original DIKU creators.
license.txt	- Gives the license agreement of the original MERC creators.
license.nvy	- Gives the license agreement of the original ENVY creators.
license.ue	- Gives the license agreement of the ULTRAENVY creators.
memory.txt	- Gives information on the memory usage of the release code.
new.txt		- Lists new improvements over the ENVY 2.2 release source.
next.nvy	- Gives a brief overview on what might be in the next release.
next.txt	- Gives a brief overview on what might be in the next release.
pfile.txt	- Gives detailed information on the format of the playerfiles.
port.txt	- Lists which computer platforms have been successfully
		compiled and suggestions to do so.
race.txt	- Gives detailed instructions on how to create new races.
security.txt	- Lists the security features built into the code.
sites.txt	- Lists known active MERC based muds open on the internet.
skill.txt	- Gives detailed instructions on how to create new
		skills/spells in the game
sky.txt		- Lists our ideas.
snip.txt	- Lists the known code snippet sites for MERC type muds.
vnum.txt	- Lists which areas occupy which vnum allotments.

The docs are almost completely from Envy 2.2 documentation written by Kahn with
names changed to match the release.
