UNNOFICIAL Zen's EnvyMud patch Release 0.85! (HomeCooked Envy2.2)
Monday, 14th July 1997

Zen		vasc@camoes.rnl.ist.utl.pt



EnvyMud Release 2.2
Friday, 14th February 1997

Kahn		envy@envy.com



=== The src directory

This file gives a brief description of the files in the src directory.

	READMEs
	Makefiles
	source files
	startup scripts
	executable file
	Contributions directory
	What is new, what is old in the source



=== The READMEs

README		- Is this file.
README.WIN	- Is the README/compilation instructions for Win 95/NT port.
README.SSM	- Is the README info on Fusion's SSM 2.2.1


=== The Makefiles

Makefile	- Is the top level Makefile to build multiple platforms.
Makefile.aix	- Is the Makefile specifically designed for AIX Machines
Makefile.ami	- Is the Makefile specifically designed for Amiga Machines
Makefile.hp	- Is the Makefile specifically designed for HPUX Machines
Makefile.irx	- Is the Makefile specifically designed for IRIX Machines
Makefile.lnx	- Is the Makefile specifically designed for Linux 2.+ Machines
Makefile.mip	- Is the Makefile specifically designed for MIPS Machines
Makefile.nex	- Is the Makefile specifically designed for the NeXT
Makefile.osf	- Is the Makefile specifically designed for the DEC OSF Alpha
Makefile.sol	- Is the Makefile specifically designed for Solaris 2.4
Makefile.std	- Is the generic Makefile for machines with gcc
Makefile.sys	- Is the Makefile specifically designed for the Sequent SysV
Makefile.tek	- Is the Makefile specifically designed for utek Machines

To compile the executable file 'envy', type 'make' and view the
available platforms.  Then type 'make <system> >&! a.out &' where
<system> is they supported system.

If your system does not appear, try 'make standard >&! a.out &' first.

For Windows 95/NT platforms, please read README.WIN.

If you have problems with crypt, add to the NOCRYPT line in your Makefile
-DNOCRYPT.

We suggest you modify the Makefile to compile with DEBUG = -ggdb if
you have gdb on your system.  This turns on specific debugging for use
with gdb.

We do not guarantee each Makefile will work for your system as each
system administrator will modify to his/her liking.  The Makefile are
only to be used as a close guideline for your system.

We extend a hearty thanks to all who have tested Envy source on these
ports:

cbjones1@unity.ncsu.edu
blitter@planetx.lanz.com
msmith@quix.robins.af.mil
ajohnson@spock2.tacom.army.mil
rks@ipdinc.com
stoked@iastate.edu
hub@hub.eden.com
erwin@pip.dknet.dk


=== The source files

act_comm.c	- Contains procedures for pc to pc or pc to mud communication
act_info.c	- Contains procedures for information reports for the pc
act_move.c	- Contains procedures for pc/mobile movement around the mud
act_obj.c	- Contains procedures for object manipulation
act_wiz.c	- Contains procedures for immortal commands
comm.c		- Contains procedures for game TCP/IP communications
const.c		- Contains tables used within the game
db.c		- Contains procedures for data file loading
fight.c		- Contains procedures for pc/mob combat
handler.c	- Contains procedures for data element handling
interp.c	- Contains procedures and tables for game user commands
magic.c		- Contains procedures for spells
merc.h		- Contains data types/prototypes/macros used within the game
save.c		- Contains procedures for player/mob file read and write
ssm.c		- Contains procedures for string management
special.c	- Contains procedures for mobile special abilities
update.c	- Contains procedures for game operation

+++ Added in HomeCooked (as of version 0.85) +++

bit.c		- Contains tables used within OLC
mem.c		- Contains procedures for OLC mem operations
olc.c		- Contains procedures for OLC commands
olc_act.c	- Contains procedures for OLC
olc_save.c	- Contains procedures for OLC area file write
string.c	- Contains procedures for OLC's string editor
mob_prog.c	- Contains procedures for MobPrograms
mob_commands.c	- Contains procedures for mob commands (used by MobPrograms)
tables.c	- Contains tables/procs used for class/social loading/saving
track.c		- Contains procedures for hunt/track


=== The startup scripts

start		- Is the start script for the startup script.  System errors
		  are saved in a file called errors.out in the log directory.
startup		- Is the startup script for EnvyMud using CSH
startupSH	- Is the startup script for EnvyMud using SH
startup-AmiTCP	- Is the startup script for EnvyMud on Amigas
startupW95.bat	- Is the startup script for EnvyMud on Windows 95
startupWNT.cmd	- Is the startup script for EnvyMud on Windows NT

On most systems, typing 'startup &' in the src directory is adequate for you.

If you wish a more indepth logging feature, 'start' will give you that.

The startup script will create a number log file starting from 1000.log in
the log directory.  Should your game crash, and you have enabled core dumps
by setting your 'LIMIT coredumpsize unlimited' (see your system manual for
information on the command LIMIT), you will have a core file with a name
matching the appropriate log file in your src directory.

The startup script will run the executable named 'envy2'.

NOTE:  Make will create a file named 'envy'.

This allows you to compile and test your code without worrying about
touching the running mud.  When you are done testing your testmud,
rename it as envy.new in the src directory and reboot your "real" mud.
The startup script will automatically update your running executable
and backup your old one by renaming it 'envy.old'.

--- Debugging

Get to know the debugger setup in your computer system.  The most well known
are dbx, adb, and gdb.  My favorite is dbx.  All can be accessed by
issuing this command at your computer prompt, 'dbx envy 1000.core'.  The
output is the line of code where the game has crashed.  To gain more
information, you must obtain a stack trace.  (See the system manual for
information on your resident debugger)



=== The executable file

The executable file is created after typing 'make'.  You must first choose
a Makefile best suited for your machine.  See 'port.txt' for more information.

After making, the executable file is named 'envy'.  After renaming it to
'envy2', you may then boot the game by executing the startup script
'startup' or 'startupSH' by typing 'startup &' or 'startupSH &'.

To enter the game, type 'telnet localhost 4000' from your mud account.



=== The Contributions directory

The Contributions directory contains code snippets the majority of
implementors in MudDom wish in Envy 2.2 but I personally feel should
not be included in the base code.  But to give credit to those who
worked so hard and contributed, I include the snippets in this
directory.

There is no guarantee the code snippets work as I have not tested them
in the current release.  But I preserved all names, comments, and
email addrs so you may contact the author directly.

Should you use the code provided in this directory, of course, please
give credit where credit is due.



=== What is new, what is old

This source is based on the Envy 2.0 release source code.  Some internal
workings have changed and some player visible improvements have been made.
We've been developing the code for the past 14 months with extensive playing.
Unfortunately, there might be bugs we have missed.  If you encounter errors
or bugs, first check your code additions then forward questions to the
mailing list at merc-l@webnexus.com.

All in all, Envy will "feel" like any other MERC mud out there.  Envy is
designed to go beyond the MERC releases and make into reality many
improvements that went undone in the MERC releases.

Envy does not support traditional C compilers.

Envy no longer runs on MSDOS machines.  The alternative provided are
the Windows 95/NT ports.  Also, you may load Linux or BSD on your PC
to compile or modify Envy.

A Contributions directory has been added to include code snippets I
feel should not be in the base code but are included to provide credit
to those who contributed the code to Envy Development.  Many thanks to
the authors.  See the above section.

See 'new.txt' to see a more accurate list of changes done to the code.

See 'next.txt' to see what might be included in the next release.
