EnvyMud release 1.0
Thursday, 30th June 1994

Kahn		michael@uclink.berkeley.edu
Thelonius	dave@mechatro2.berkeley.edu
Kith		kith@marble.bu.edu
Hatchet		hatchet@uclink.berkeley.edu



=== The area directory

This file gives a brief description of the files in the area directory.

	*.are files
	AREA.LST
	BUGS.TXT
	IDEAS.TXT
	NOTES.TXT
	SHUTDOWN.TXT
	TIME.TXT
	TYPOS.TXT


=== *.are files

These are the area files each representing one zone in the mud.  Each zone
may have objects, mobiles, rooms, special procedures for mobs, shopkeepers,
and data telling the mud all sorts of information about how that zone interacts
with the players.

See 'area.txt' for more information on what an area file consists of.


=== AREA.LST

This file contains all the names of all the area files loaded into the
mud server.  The zones listed must occur in increasing vnum order as stated
in each area file.

See 'vnum.txt' for more information on what vnum group each distributed
area file fills.



===  BUGS.TXT

This file contains all the server bug reports and player created bug reports
while the game is running.  This file is not included in the package.  The
mud server is smart enough to create a file when necessary.

It is advisable to check this file once in a while to ensure the quality
of your code and to meet your players immediate needs.



===  IDEAS.TXT

This file contains all the player created idea contributions while the game
is running.  This file is not included in the package.  The mud server is
smart enough to create a file when necessary.

It is advisable to check this file once in a while to improve your mud to
the standards your players desire.



=== NOTES.TXT

This file contains all the intermud communications in the form of notes while
the game is running.  This file is not included in the package.  The mud
server is smart enough to create a file when necessary.

It is advisable to periodically check and remove certain notes once in a while
to prevent note clutter.  Not every player is diligent in removing their
notes.

To remove notes, just edit notes.txt with your favorite text editor and
delete a note block from "Sender ....." to "Sender ....".  If you were to
make an error, the mud will stop on bootup with an error indicating which
line was offending.



=== SHUTDOWN.TXT

This file is used by the startup or startupSH script to indicate whether
or not the mud is to reboot automatically.  If the file 'shutdown.txt'
exists at the instant the mud goes down and the startup script is running,
the startup script will exit and the mud will not reboot.

NOTE:  Should you test another copy of your mud in the area directory, and
	end the test with a shutdown BEFORE your original mud exits, you
	will create a shutdown.txt file which will signal your original mud
	to NOT reboot.  Just delete the file to ensure proper operation of
	your startup script when or if you see it.



=== TIME.TXT

This file is used to give the mud server information on when to shutdown.
This is designed for muds on an uptime schedule.  This file is not included
in the package.  You have no need for one unless you intend on having your
mud server turn off at regular times.

See 'down.txt' for more information regarding setting an automatic shutdown
time.



=== TYPOS.TXT

This file contains all the player created typo reports while the game is
running.  This file is not included in the package.  The mud server is smart
enough to create a file when necessary.

It is advisable to check this file once in a while to ensure your areas and
text displays are error-free.